Our goal is to generate a different and random XNA every time we run a contract. For this, we need random numbers. Random numbers in NEO smart contracts written in C# can be obtained from consensus data on the blockchain, but in writing NEO smart contracts written in Python, the information available from the blockchain is limited.

#### Blockchain Information

Every 15 seconds a block will be generated on the NEO blockchain,
It records all the changes that have occurred on the blockchain network in the past 15 seconds.

The height of a block is an index of the order in which blocks are generated. The height of the first block is 0; the current height on the blockchain is actually the number of block blocks generated so far.

We can write code in the contract to access the current block height on the blockchain:

```Python
temp_blockHeight = GetHeight ()
```

- `Blockchain.GetHeight ()`         -returns the current height of the blockchain.
- `Blockchain.GetAccount ()`        -returns the current blockchain account.
- `Blockchain.GetContract ()`       -returns the current contract address.
- `Blockchain.GetTransaction ()`    -returns the detailed information address of a transaction.

For more information, see [<sup>1</sup>](#1).

#### random number

Since we cannot currently access the consensus data on the NEO blockchain, we must generate a random number ourselves.

Originally in Python, we can obtain the random number between x and y in the following way:

```Python
random.randint (x, y)
```

But on the blockchain, any independent calculation with the same function and parameters should get the same result. In other words, blockchain does not allow randomness.

Therefore, in fact, the “random” number of the blockchain is not truly random and unpredictable.

In order to obtain such a "random" number, we can use some unpredictable data from the blockchain.

### Directive:

1. In the `generateAlien` method, get the current height from the blockchain and assign it to the variable` blockHeight`.

2. In the `RandomNumber` method, multiply the value `blockHeight` by the current block time, and then return the result as a random number.

3. In the `generateAlien` method, call the `RandomNumber` method with `blockHeight` as the parameter, and assign the result to `xna`.

#### Footnote

<a class="anchor" id="1"></a>
[1] BlockChain related methods in official documents
: [Link](https://neo-boa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/boa/interop/blockchain.html#module-boa.interop.Neo.Blockchain)
