---
title: "Token Standard"
actions: ['checkAnswer', 'hints']
material: 
  editor:
    language: typescript
    startingCode: |
        public class AlienFinder : SmartContract {
            ...

            public static string name ()

            public static string symbol ()

            public static BigInteger totalSupply ()

            public static byte decimals ()
        }
    answer: > 
        public class AlienFinder : SmartContract {
            ...

            public static string name () => "Alien";

            public static string symbol () => "ALI";

            public static BigInteger totalSupply () => getCounter ();

            public static byte decimals () => 0;
        }
---

Ideally, once a developer knows how to use one token in NEO's network, they shouldn't have to learn to use any other token in NEO. That is the purpose of [NEP-5](https://github.com/neo-project/proposals/blob/master/nep-5.mediawiki). It is a "token standard for the NEO blockchain that will provide systems with a generalized interaction mechanism for tokenized Smart Contracts". All tokens in the network should ideally follow this standard for ease of use. 

### NEP-5 Methods and Events

NEP-5 standardized tokens should provide the following methods: 

- `name ()` - returns the name of the token. e.g. "MyToken".
- `symbol ()` - returns a short string symbol of the token managed in this contract. e.g. "MYT".
- `decimals ()` - returns the number of decimals used by the token - e.g. 2, means to divide the token amount by 100 to get its user representation. For tokens that do not subdivide, the method should return 0. 
- `totalSupply ()` - returns the total token supply deployed in the system.
- `balanceOf ()` - returns the token balance of the account.
- `transfer ()` - transfers an amount of tokens from the from account to the to account.

It also has a standardized transfer event: 

 - `transfer` event triggers when the method of the same name is invoked. 

Since `balanceOf ()` and `transfer ()` require more complex operations, we will have dedicated chapters for them later in the lesson. 

### => Operator
> *Tag: C# Basics*

There is a shorthand in C# to shortern method bodies into a single line. It is called an expression body definition. It can be useful for methods that contain very simpe operations. For example, 

```c#
public static string FullName (string fName, string lName) => fName + lName; 
```

is an expression body definition of: 

```c#
public static string FullName (string fName, string lName) {
  return fName + lName; 
}
```

## Instructions

- Implement four methods by following the method definitions on the [NEP-5](https://github.com/neo-project/proposals/blob/master/nep-5.mediawiki) standard page (they were provided for you in the editor). Use the => operator for all four methods. 
  - The token will be called "Alien", with "ALI" as its symbol. 
  - Aliens are non-divisible. 
  - Total supply can be obtained from a method we have previously written. 