---
title: "NEP-11"
actions: ['checkAnswer', 'hints']
material: 
  editor:
    language: typescript
    startingCode: |
        
    answer: > 
        
---

### NEP-11

However, there's another token standard that's a much better fit for crypto-collectibles — the [NEP-11](https://github.com/neo-project/proposals/pull/41), because each of our Aliens is unique.

A non-fungible token (NFT) can be thought of like a property deed - each one is unique and carries some non-mutable information like the physical address of the property. But other information, such as the owner of the property, can be changed.

The NEP-11 standard is just designed for the requirement of NFT. NEP-11 tokens are not interchangeable since each one is assumed to be unique, and are not divisible. You can only trade them in whole units, and each one has a unique ID. 

As for the code, we can turn a NEP-5 token into a NEP-11 token easily. In the NEP-11, all the NEP-5 methods and events is required as well. We only need to implement three more methods,

- `ownerOf()` - returns a collection that contains all the co-owners that own the specified token.
- `tokensOf()` - returns a collection that contains all of the token ids owned by the specified address.
- `properties()` - returns a serialized NVM object containing the properties for the given NFT.

And a python example is avaliable [here](https://gist.github.com/hal0x2328/3237fd9f61132cea6b6dd43899947753).

## Instructions

- According to the NEP-11 requirement, declare these methods and events in our `AlienFinder`.
- Add a changeable property `owner` to our alien, and implement other logics.