---
title: "NEO Contracts"
actions: ['checkAnswer', 'hints']
material: 
  editor:
    language: c#
    startingCode: |
        // Add 'using' line here

        public class MyContract {
            public static void Main (string alienName) {

            }
        }
    answer: > 
        using Neo.SmartContract.Framework;

        public class AlienFinder : SmartContract {
            public static void Main (string alienName) {

            }
        }
---

> *Tag: C# Basics*

We start off by getting acquainted with the basic template of an empty NEO Contract:

```c#
using Neo.SmartContract.Framework;

public class MyContract : SmartContract {
    public static void Main () {

    }
}
```

The `using` keyword allows the current contract to use types and methods written in the `Neo.SmartContract.Framework` provided by NEO. The first line is necessary for writing any NEO smart contract. 

The `public class MyContract : SmartContract` line is a standard C# class declaration. It declares a `public` class named `MyContract`. All NEO smart contracts need to inherit (using the `:` expression) the `SmartContract` class provided by the NEO smart contract framework. 

It's okay if you are not familiar with some of these concepts from the C# language. The tutorial will introduce them as we proceed. 

### The Main Method

The Main method is the entry point of a NEO smart contract. By defining the parameters and return types of the main method, you are defining what type of data the smart contract accepts and returns. 

`public static void Main()` is a main method that takes no parameter and returns nothing. 

A contract that accepts an integer as a parameter and returns a string would have a Main method like this: 

```c#
public static string Main (int someInteger) {
  
}
```



## Instructions: 

We have a class containing a main method. We will turn it into a NEO smart contract. 

- Add a `using` statement for the NEO smart contract framework. 

- Change the class name from `MyContract` to `AlienFinder`. The class should inherit from `SmartContract`. 